We're seeing this kind of flattening of
orgs. Everyone's becoming an IC again.
>> It used to be, okay, I don't have the
skills to do 10 different jobs, but now
with AI allows me to do many of those
jobs myself. We need to dissolve the
boundaries of these traditional roles
and call ourselves builders. I'd love
for us to get to the world where that's
the title.
>> I also just saw a stat Google let go of
so many of their middle managers.
>> Management is still really critical. You
have a northstar. You have a vision and
you're just trying to figure out how to
use the resources that you have to get
that thing done. Used to be people, but
now it's basically models and different
models have different strengths. You
kind of have to assemble the adventures
so that you can use the right tools for
the right purposes.
>> What do you feel is the biggest change
in the role in life of a manager these
days?
>> It's always been manager's job to manage
change. I just think the rate of change
is accelerating. Today management is
really about this idea of be sturdy
while being flexible. So I think about
this metaphor a lot of the willow tree.
It can survive a lot of storms,
disasters, etc. But it's also very
flexible.
>> You have such an interesting trajectory
from being head of design to now being
obsessed with data and analytics.
>> You want to diagnose with data and treat
with design. Data is not a tool that's
going to tell you what you should build.
I don't actually think a lot of the fast
growing companies are using data well at
this point. Traditionally things just
didn't grow that fast. These companies
are totally getting by on just good
instincts and good vibes. But what
always happens is eventually things stop
growing.
>> Today my guest is Julie Zoo. Julie was
my first ever guest on this podcast
which I recorded over 3 years ago. So
this is a very special conversation. As
I've shared many times before in other
places, Julie's newsletter, The Looking
Glass, was the inspiration for my
newsletter and basically led to
everything that I do now. If you're not
familiar with Julie, she was the
longtime head of design for the Facebook
app used by over 3 billion people. She's
also the author of the best-selling and
very important book, The Making of a
Manager. And most recently, she started
her own company, Sundial, which is an AI
powered analyst used by companies like
OpenAI, Gamma, and Character AI. Julie
is one of the most thoughtful and
insightful product leaders that I've
ever come across. And she's also got one
of the most interesting perspectives on
product building. Having worked at a
mega-arge corp like Meta as head of
design and now as a founder at a tiny
startup that's all about using data to
help you make decisions. It's really
rare for someone to have this spectrum
of experiences. In our conversation, we
talk about how learning to be a great
manager directly translates to learning
how to use AI tools extremely well.
Which specific skills will become more
valuable in the next couple of years?
Her most valuable and timeless advice
for new managers, why she's not hiring
product managers at her startup, her
simple heristic for knowing when to use
data and when to use intuition in making
decisions. There's something in this
episode for everyone. And if you enjoy
this podcast, don't forget to subscribe
and follow it in your favorite
podcasting app or YouTube. It helps
tremendously. And if you become an
annual subscriber of my newsletter, you
get 15 incredible products for free for
an entire year, including lovable,
replet, bold, nad, linear, superhuman,
descript, whisper flow, gamma,
perplexity, warp, granola, magic
patterns, recast, chappd, and mobin.
Head on over to lennisnewsletter.com and
click product pass. With that, I bring
you Julie Zoo. This episode is brought
to you by Mercury. I've been banking
with Mercury for years and honestly, I
can't imagine banking any other way at
this point. I switched from Chase and
holy moly, what a difference. Sending
wires, tracking spend, giving people on
my team access to move money around so
freaking easy. Where most traditional
banking websites and apps are clunky and
hard to use, Mercury is meticulously
designed to be an intuitive and simple
experience. And Mercury brings all the
ways that you use money into a single
product, including credit cards,
invoicing, bill pay, reimbursements for
your teammates, and capital. Whether
you're a funded tech startup looking for
ways to pay contractors and earn yield
on your idle cash, or an agency that
needs to invoice customers and keep them
current, or an e-commerce brand that
needs to stay on top of cash flow and
excess capital, Mercury can be tailored
to help your business perform at its
highest level. See what over 200,000
entrepreneurs love about Mercury. Visit
mercury.com to apply online in 10
minutes. Mercury is a fintech, not a
bank. Banking services provided through
Mercury's FDIC insured partner banks.
For more details, check out the show
notes. Today's episode is brought to you
by DX, the developer intelligence
platform designed by leading
researchers. To thrive in the AI era,
organizations need to adapt quickly. But
many organization leaders struggle to
answer pressing questions like which
tools are working? How are they being
used? What's actually driving value? DX
provides the data and insights that
leaders need to navigate this shift.
With DX, companies like Dropbox,
Booking.com, Adion, and Intercom get a
deep understanding of how AI is
providing value to their developers and
what impact AI is having on engineering
productivity. To learn more, visit DX's
website at getdx.com/lenny.
That's getdx.com/lenny.
>> Julie, thank you so much for being here
and welcome back to the podcast.
>> Thank you, Lenny. I'm so excited to be
here. I've been looking forward to this
all week. I love your podcast. I love
where you've taken it since our very
first conversation, and I'm super
excited to have a fun and engaging chat.
Can you believe that first episode, the
very first episode of this podcast was
over three years ago at this point. Holy
>> I'm not sure you had that fire in the
background back then.
>> So, funny enough, I don't know how many
people have noticed this Easter egg that
I've stuck with. Uh, in that first
studio, I was just watching the episode.
I had like this funny little mirror. I
don't know if I had in the first episode
with a fire uh place that was showing up
in that mirror because the mirror was
showing something stupid. And so I've
just kind of kept this fireplace across
every studio I've moved across in my in
my various places.
>> I even remember when we chatted video
was like kind of a newer thing. You're
like we'll record it but like it's
really about the audio and now we moved
into the video era.
>> So as you were saying that I realized my
fire was broken so I just had to turn
that on. So we just cut a little piece.
Uh yeah that fire was my little fun
Easter egg for myself and I I don't
think anyone's ever realized this.
>> It's very cozy. I love it.
>> That's the idea. Uh, I was actually just
looking at the stats. So, since that
first episode, this podcast has done
over 20 million downloads. It's
approaching 30 million downloads.
>> It's really incredible. I think it is a
testament to just your curiosity and how
much you really care about the craft of
building great products and sharing that
with the world. And I know I listen to
your podcast and read your newsletter.
My team does. We're constantly sharing
things from all the amazing speakers
that you've had. So, thank you for doing
this.
>> Uh, my pleasure. I really appreciate
that. So, the reason we are chatting
again three years later is uh you're
re-releasing your incredible book, The
Making of a Manager. I've got it right
here. Uh you've sold a bazillion copies.
It's been on every list I've seen. Uh
you're releasing the paperback version.
You're adding some chapters. I guess
first of all, just how do you feel on
the reflecting back on the the success
of this book?
>> It honestly went beyond my expectations.
So, I'm super happy with it. My big
motivation to write it was, I think,
largely because I felt if I had to write
this thing, I was likely going to become
a better manager. And that was actually
a huge part of it. Um, because thinking
about and writing something, you know,
I've been blogging for a long time and I
know that part of my process is when I
really sit down to try and put down
everything I feel and write letters to
myself, it really helps me. And so that
was honestly a huge motivation. I hope
that it would go out there and it would
sell some books. I was thinking about
that maybe for people who grew up in
companies like mine like Facebook, you
know, high-scale Silicon Valley, it it
might resonate. I couldn't have expected
that it would have much wider reach than
that. And um and that's been really
awesome. And just how many people will
tell me things like, I thought I was the
only one who felt this way, but this
book made me realize that, hey, these
are very normal feelings. And that's
certainly how I felt just stumbling
through and feeling like an imposttor
for so many years. And so I'm it really
is very gratifying to hear that from
readers.
>> I feel like it's the modern-day high
output management. It feels that's the
book that's been mentioned most on this
podcast. And it feels like this is just
like a modern version. I feel like that
date book is actually out of date in a
lot of ways. So I can see why people are
really drawn to it. And this is a great
segue to the first area I want to spend
some time on, which is it feels like a
lot of the skills you learn as a manager
translate to being really good with AI
and using AI tools really well. And I
want to talk through a few trends that
uh I want to get your take on that
relate to this general theme. The first
is it feels like just everyone is going
to become a manager in the near future
because of agents being so integrated
into our workflows. there's this agentic
society that we're that we're coming to
and it feels like the same skills of
being a manager make you really good
working with agents. Uh just thoughts on
on that and where you think that's going
to go.
>> I 100% believe that and agree with that
which is that management is just about
in my mind having an outcome. So you
want to get something done. That's the
thing. You have a northstar. You have a
vision and you're just trying to figure
out how to use the resources that you
have to get that thing done. And
typically when we talk about management
in traditional settings, we talk about
the resources being people and getting
the right talent and making sure that
there you know you've got the like
assemble the adventure. So you've got
the right mix of skills that you need.
The second lever is around okay what's
the purpose? Does everyone know what
they're supposed to do with their
talents? Like do we have a goal? Do we
have a purpose? And then the third thing
is process which is how should all of
these different people and tools come
together. And these are still the
fundamentals of working with agentic
systems. Like you still need a goal. You
need to be very clear about what the
outcome is. And you have to understand
the strengths of of you know used to be
people but now it's basically models and
different models have different
strengths. So it's like they have
different personalities and so you kind
of have to get to know it like um you
know develop an intuition for it so that
you can use the right tools for the
right purposes and I mean we talk about
agents but we also talk about like what
are the tools that agents have access
to. So you still have to make decisions
around that and then there's of course
process which is how you do it. Now, now
I think with better and better models,
perhaps the agents get smarter so they
can deal with um higher and higher
levels of figuring out how to do
something, but I think it's still very
important for us to be able to provide
the right context, provide the right
highlevel instructions so that we get
what we want. So really, it's the same
principles. Uh and I absolutely agree
with you that more and more of us are
going to have to double down on these
skills to be able to use these tools
very effectively.
>> So along those lines, I have your book
right here. You have this list of a
manager's job is to build a team that
works well together, support members in
reaching their career goals, and create
processes to get work done smoothly and
efficiently. Uh, which is basically
exactly what you just said.
Interestingly, that middle bullet is the
part you don't have to worry about
anymore with agents. You don't have to
worry about their career development and
progress. And
>> that's true. That's true. Uh, though
some people do joke that if we don't
treat our agents nice, what's going to
happen when AGI comes? And, uh, you
know, maybe it's still it still might
benefit us to be kind. I'm one of those
people that says thank you to the Whimo
when I leave and just like thanks uh
chatbt when I'm in voice mode. Just like
thank you that was really helpful. So
along these lines, I know there's a lot
of ways to go here, but just in terms of
skills that are important to a manager,
which do you think are most valuable to
develop in working with agents in AI
systems? I think about things like
clarity, communication, just like what
comes to mind when you think about like
here's the things you want to double
down on as you're learning to be a
manager that will also help you be
really good at AI tooling and working
with agents.
>> Like the first is defining the goal and
defining the outcome and being really
really crystal clear on what does
success look like. I mean there's
obviously lots and lots of like if you
ask a company to do this we'll know that
this is challenging for humans right I
think a lot of times when you talk about
you know why is alignment so difficult
at a big company it often comes down to
this question which is different people
may have different pictures of what
success looks like and even if I
describe in human words oh you know
Lenny I want to build this product and
it's going to be amazing or this podcast
episode which you asked me I want lots
of people to hear it and take away
things that's very general like how do
we get even more specific so that we
know without question whether we've hit
it or not. This is actually a really
really difficult problem. It's a
different difficult question for us
because again we tend to think very high
levels. So figuring out how to boil it
down so that an agent can really
understand what success and failure
looks like is a lot of the game. And I
think this also relates to things like
well that's why we have to write eval
and that's why they're so important
because they're helping us understand
what is the objective criteria and these
days I work in data and my company is
all about trying to automate data
analysis and the forever question goes
the whole point of data and the whole
point of metrics and KPIs is we're
trying to put a little bit more of an
objective measure or get as crystal
clear as possible about what success
looks like and I think it's really an
art more than it is like a science. But
that's like the first thing I think if
you're really unclear about what success
looks like the prompt, you're probably
not going to get the most amazing work.
Um I think that's true for managing
teams and it's very much true for
managing AIs.
>> Okay. So let me actually flip this on
you and talk about another trend that
we're seeing which is this kind of
flattening of orgs. Uh managers being
let go. Everyone's becoming an IC again.
I just had the CEO of Air Table on the
podcast and his his whole shtick was
that CEOs have to become IC's again.
They have he's coding more than he's
ever coded again and his feeling is you
have to know what's possible by being in
the weeds in order to figure out what
your product should be. I also just saw
a stat that Google let go of so many of
their middle managers of smaller teams.
It's just like this flattening trend.
So, do we even need managers? I guess is
one question in the future. and then
just thoughts on how this uh will play
out.
>> Yeah. So, I think the real promise and
magic of AI that we're seeing in the
workplace is that it leads us to each
individual is far more empowered. So, it
used to be okay, I don't have the skills
to do 10 different jobs, so I need to
supplement by hiring people to do these
jobs. I need someone who's really good
at design. I need someone who's really
good at coding. I need someone who's
really good at data analysis. and then
I'll assemble that team. But now with AI
and my companion, it's like, wait a
second, AI makes allows me to do many of
those jobs myself. Now, I'm not going to
do them at the it's called the PhD or
the highest 1% 10% level, but if I was,
you know, at the zero or 10th
percentile, it can certainly get me even
today very quickly up to like the 60th
70th in terms of um what the state of
the art is. And I think that that
unlocks so many doors. And so the main
thing that I felt so excited about and
this is something I tell my team all the
time is we need to dissolve the
boundaries of these traditional roles.
So in the past again we would have a
traditional team engineers product
manager designer researcher data
scientist and I think now the teams can
look more like well it's just two people
and again they could be any of these
traditional disciplines but uh the the
key thing is they can now use AI to help
themselves do a lot of the things that
the other folks used to be able to do.
So, in some ways, we can drop all of
these different role distinctions and
call ourselves builders. I think that's
sort of the most general purpose way of
thinking about what we can all be. We
can all be builders. We can all be
builders. And I I I'd love for us to get
to a world where that's just that's like
the title. That's funny. That's the term
I've been actually using more and more.
I used to orient this podcast as a
newsletter around product managers and
then I started using just product to be
a little more broad and now I'm actually
using that term builder. Uh uh so and I
and I love that term because because
it's exactly what you're saying and this
is very much a theme that comes up often
in these conversations more and more
just the lines are blurring. I'm curious
at your company how does that look like?
What are you doing differently? What are
you seeing in on the ground within your
company that maybe would be different
from a few years ago?
>> So we have eliminated
more roles. Um for example we thought
trai we would need a bunch of product
managers. It's turned out that actually
um if you don't have a product manager,
I know this might be going against a
little bit of the ethos of of where
>> here we go.
>> Where Lety started, but I find that
sometimes when you have like a designer
or product manager and let's say I'm an
engineer, then when I have a problem
like, oh, I need to figure out the
product definition, my default will be,
well, I've got these people and that's
kind of their job description, so I'm
just going to delegate that to them. And
I think that in in doing so, you know,
again, where we want to be polite, we
want to respect everyone's lanes. I
think that's a missed opportunity for
that, you know, if I'm the engineer to
look be like, wait a second, I should
probably focus a lot too. Like I need to
understand and have an opinion about
what to build or what the user
experience is. And so we found that if
we actually make teams smaller and we
kind of even like in the past, you know,
prei like just have fewer of these, it
allowed everyone to be like, oh wait, we
don't have product manager on the team.
Okay, so communication's up to me.
Figuring out how we get greatest value
to users is something that is now
strictly in my charter. And so that's
why I'm such a big fan of like we can
make teams smaller and we can eliminate
these lines. Sure, again, there's still
I'm not trying to say like everyone has
to do everything. We still can respect
the fact that you might be much better
at this particular skill than me, but
it's less about the role and it's more
about the specific context that we're
in. And I find that whenever you have
teams and you empower them to be able to
take more action on their specific
context rather than having these higher
level rules or policies or like this is
how it's supposed to be then you get
better work, you get faster work uh and
you get happier employees because you
know people feel like they actually can
you know have the power to create the
thing that they want. That's really
interesting that just that constraint of
not having a PM makes the engineer
realize they're not going to wait for
someone else to do it. They have to
figure it out. The obvious kind of trick
there is they have to be good good at
this.
>> It's a very different job from
engineering to be really good at
articulating here's the problem we're
going to solve. Here's why it's
important that we're solving. Here's how
we're going to prioritize everything
we're thinking about. Here's how do we
get alignment? Is there something you do
differently when you're hiring these
engineers knowing you're gonna probably
not hire a PM and and just that feels
really hard to hire for someone that's
really good at all these things?
>> It is true. And I'm not trying to say
again that everyone needs to be good at
everything. I don't think that's very
realistic. I do think for example, if we
were going to create a team and we're
going to have uh a couple engineers and
none of them are very good at at
thinking through product requirements or
what the user angle is, we probably do
need to supplement the team with
somebody with that skill set, right? And
that might be a designer or that might
be another engineer who's really good at
that or that might be uh you know a a
traditional product manager or some or
even sometimes a data analyst who's
really good. So that skill is still
important and the team still needs to
have that skill otherwise it's probably
not going to produce the best outcome.
But I like to think of it as like what
are the skills that are needed for this
and can we now find a couple people but
it doesn't mean we just automatically go
to that script of need a PM need a
designer need three engineers need need
that you know um another example for us
is like even thinking about frontend
backend engineering and used to be like
oh some people are front end engineers
from a back so if you have a project and
it's got some front end some backend the
shortcut is like I need one of these and
one of these and that's how it's going
to go but if you say look you're an
engineer you're a builder You can this
has a little bit of front end but you
know what you can probably figure that
out like use AI to help you figure it
out you know get obviously someone who's
a specialist to review the code or to
give you um some highle guidance on
things but just do it and ever since we
started to implement that as well we see
yeah again a little bit of um you know
you have to kind of invest a little bit
in the beginning so people are are not
as comfortable they have to learn so you
initially things take longer takes a
little bit of extra time Right? Versus
if you did slot in a front-end
specialist and this is a front-end
project, it probably would have gone a
little bit shorter. But in the long run,
that investment really pays off because
now you have a lot more people who are
again a little more well-rounded and can
take on many more pieces just on their
own. And then in specific scenarios
like, oh, this is super front-end heavy.
Sure, let's still bring in somebody who
is more specialized in that particular
skill. I love that you've had the
experience of working at a mega large
company at Meta and now you're building
your own startup that's small and in the
middle of this trend of just staying
very small and and staying really lean
and just everyone doing more things.
It's so cool that you're experiencing
that. So, a couple questions there. Just
which functions are you seeing most
accelerated with all these AI tools? Is
it engineering? Is it something else?
And then are there are there tools that
have been most helpful to you? Just AI
tools for folks would be like, "Oh, I
should check it out." Like I'm guessing
cursor, but curious if there's anything
else.
>> Yeah, certainly engineering. Engineering
is one that we I mean most of our
company is engineers. So that's the one
that we focused on a bunch. I certainly
do see more people also prototyping
things. And so it's not just we have not
we have like two designers, but we also
see engineers. Um we have one uh we have
a team that's called product science
which is this interesting blend of c
it's you can think about as like a
forward deployed person who is uh has a
lot of data analysis background um and
is kind of playing a customer success
role and also kind of playing like a
product role um and you see them
starting to take on building more
prototypes or getting into some of the
engineering. And so it's really lovely
to see that blend of everyone can do a
little bit of everything else and we're
all encouraging each other. Um the other
thing that recently we've we've also
been trying to do a lot more is just you
know obviously we say hey engineer now
you can do analysis and their first
thing is like oh I don't really know
analysis. This is where chat GBT comes
in and it's like well you know
traditionally we would say well I have
to learn that from a human. I have to
ask this person and now I'm going to
take a bunch of their time because I
want them to explain everything to me.
And in fact, I think these days, you
know, TAGBT or these other AI tools are
better teachers. Um, I find that we tend
to maybe not use them quite as much, you
know, just for the purposes of
accelerating our education or or even
going through something like sometimes
what I'll do is I'll find a curriculum
online and u, you know, if you like take
a course, it'll be like this whatever
12-week curriculum and I'll just feed it
into chat PT and I'll say help me
customize a program for me, you know,
using the ways that I like to learn.
Like I am a person who really needs
examples. I need a lot of like explain
like I'm five, give me an analogy. And I
know some other people on my team,
they're like I don't get like these
examples don't make any sense. Like
we've we're different types of learners.
And so the idea of like a a you know a a
tool that personalizes learning for each
of us really helps us I think accelerate
and and just learn these skills much
faster than before. So yes, the tools
are great. We can use cursor. It helps
us. It autocompletes. It writes a bunch
of things. But the acceleration of
learning I think is another maybe
underutilized tool in all of our
arsenals just because I know whenever I
talk to people we just we forget like we
don't we don't think that like oh wait
yes we could be doing that and just
sitting down and probably in 30 minutes
or an hour learn so much faster than
what we used to be able to do before.
>> That's such an interesting point.
There's like these tools that are in the
just in time helping you move faster and
then there's but you also need to learn
how to do something. Yes. Like to some
foundational lessons. Uh what's an area
that your team did that like what did
they work on learning?
>> So I'll give you an example. I was just
talking to an engineer this morning and
he's written a bunch of these
algorithms. So one of the things our
company does is we're trying to automate
data analysis. So one of the things we
have to do is obviously understand the
best practices like if there's a type of
question hey what features are are
really the ones that people pay for we
need to kind of figure out what is the
right analysis to do and so the engineer
was saying to me you know Julie I feel
like I really understand the how like I
know the algorithms I know we do root
cause analysis like how we do that but
what I don't really understand is why or
when this would be most useful like in
what context text in a company would
this company come up because he's an
engineer. he hasn't done that job of
being like a PM or an executive that
asks these types of questions and that
was like the perfect thing where like
yeah you know traditionally you might
have asked someone but this is more
general purpose like there's so much
resources in the world on the internet
about it this is like the perfect type
of question where if you just talk to
chat GBT it's probably going to give you
a much better answer and allow you to go
deeper and a secondary thing we we've
been learning too is this idea of almost
like as a uh using chatgbt it's like you
test your learning so it explains a
bunch of things and so what I often like
to do is like okay I read this so this
mean try to explain back what I heard
right so does this mean is the right way
to think about it that this is kind of
like this analogy and chatbt will
critique me yes that is right or no you
didn't quite get that right like in fact
and it always tries to say it nicely
this is a funny part like that's close
and then eventually it's like you were
completely wrong just in in the the
style but like it it helps so much
because it It's in interactive and so we
can really test whether we really
understand the concept by trying to
retell it back in our own way.
>> It's incredible just how many ways all
this AI
>> breakthrough is helping us in advance
and do more and learn more and become
better. I know there's some downsides
but this is incredible and so many ways
of getting better and faster. I want to
spend a little more time on this data
analysis stuff. So again, you have such
an interesting trajectory from working
at a big company to starting your own
small company. Uh from being head of
design to now being obsessed with data
and analytics. So let me spend a little
time there. Um what do AI companies that
are have kind of figured out how to use
AI for data analysis and data work doing
differently? What can people what are
people missing and sleeping on in terms
of getting better at working with data?
And let me just ask add this point. I
feels like we're almost working through
here's all the blockers to a team moving
forward. There's like a waiting for the
PM to write the PRD and then there's
like waiting for the data scientist to
give you answers analysis. So this is
like another really cool unblock that
every team member will have.
>> So your first question was how are a
bunch of AI companies using data. So the
funny thing, my funny answer to this is
I don't actually think a lot of the fast
growing companies are using data well at
this point. And the main reason why is
because traditionally things just didn't
grow that fast. And so you know if you
got to 100 million users, your company's
probably been around for a while. And if
your company's been around for a while,
you've had time to set up things like
logging and you've hired a growth team
at that point and you've hired a data
team and they've like done a bunch of
work to log and instrument and then
transform the data and like we've talked
about like what is the observability for
our business and you just usually had
years to build and develop that because
of the the rate of growth. And so today
we see companies that are growing insane
and they're still about 10 people or two
people or however many people but
they've got hundreds of millions in ARR
and hundreds of millions of users and
you know what they don't actually have
all of that infrastructure that logging
and all to be able to truly do data
analysis. So it's I would say that these
these companies are are totally getting
by on just good instincts and good
vibes. And we see that, right? Like you
don't really need um a data analysis to
sometimes make something that works. But
I think what data helps us do is it just
it it in my mind it's it sort of is like
helping us reflect back what is really
reality. And so of course if AR is
growing, awesome, you know, great, keep
doing what you're doing. But what always
happens is eventually things stop
growing. Growth does not happen forever.
And usually when grow stop grow stops
everyone has this question of like
what's going on why did it happen and
then you start to be able to see the
power of if you've obs if you've
instrumented everything very well and
you have a very good observability model
for your business it's much easier to
start to get into the root cause. It's
easier to even predict whether growth
will slow down at a certain point. it's
easier to catch these trends earlier. If
you don't have good observability over
how your business runs and what the
company's um key levers are, then you
will be scrambling. And at that point,
that's usually when people start
investing a ton in data. So, I wouldn't
say that we're do a lot of these hot
companies, you know, are are quite there
yet. But what I also think is a trend is
that every time there's a new
technological shift, we actually have to
change the way that we think about anal
like analysis has to answer the
questions that we have. And if
technology changes or context changes,
we need new methodologies of analysis.
So for example when mobile came to the
forefront right looking at sessions or
sessions per day or or um time spent on
mobile or um you know kind of uh length
of sessions became something that was
important for us to understand are
people getting value in this new medium
I think that's the same with what we
have today conversational analytics is
totally different used to be let's say
in the Google world right I knew you
were interested in shopping if you click
the shopping tab I know you're
interested in maps if you click the maps
tab, we can measure clicks. Today, it's
just all conversation. And so, it's
actually harder for us to tease apart
what is the user intent. You know, if I
worked on um any of these LLM, uh I
would say like one of the probably the
biggest questions is, hey, what use
cases are growing or what use cases are
shrinking? And that's much harder to
tell today because it's not just clicks
on tabs or pages. It's like we have to
probably use an LLM to or a machine
learning model to bucket user intent. We
probably have to ask questions like is
the flow going really well in
conversations, you know, like a like if
I just ask one question and I don't go
back and forth like did the user get
value, right? It's always trying to get
back to like we're trying to figure out
if this was a good experience, but now
it's it's like we need to actually
invent new methodologies to help us
analyze that. Yeah, I think there the
question is always uh like with
conversations, do you want it to be a
long conversation? Do you want to be a
short convers like what's the right
answer? What's better?
>> I had uh the head of chat PT on the
podcast, Nick Turley, and turns out one
of the uh ways they found the most
common use cases early on was watching
uh Tik Tok comments and things going
viral on Tik Tok after they launched.
>> About that.
>> Yep.
>> Okay. So I want to come back to this
really interesting uh unusual path that
you took from uh being a head of design
at Facebook. Uh you're an inspiration to
so many designers. Now you spend your
time on on a data startup obsessed with
data. Uh I don't know classically
designers aren't the biggest fans of
experiments and data and making
decisions based on data. When you look
at designers and you hear designers kind
of push back on like no we don't want to
be super data driven. and we want to uh
we we know better than we have a sense
of what's beautiful and great and
intuition all these things. What what do
you think designers are are missing when
when they feel that and say that when
they they're afraid of writing
experiments and data and kind of want to
push that out?
>> There's one phrase that my co-founder
and I would always discuss with us uh
amongst ourselves very early on and
which we shared with like a lot of the
companies that we work with which is
what you really want is you want to
diagnose with data and treat with
design.
So data is not a tool that's going to
tell you what you should build or what
the solution is or how we're going to,
you know, cure the fact that you don't
have really great retention. It's just
not. But it can tell you if you have a
problem and where that problem or
opportunity might be. But you still need
to go back and undergo a very creative
process to figure out what's the best
way to solve that. So that's the first
thing I would say is this framework of
like data helps you figure out what's
actually happening. what do people like?
What are they engaging with? What not?
Right? It's just it gives you a story
that better reflects re reality. Um
because again, we all have stories,
right? We're like, "Oh, my my company's
amazing. People love us." Blah blah.
That's story I want to believe. But
reality may be a different picture. And
so what data is trying to do is capture
reality. And by the way, I don't think
of data just as like it's AB test and
it's quantitative things we can measure.
It's to me data is also well what did
people put onto Tik Tok and which things
went viral and what are they saying in
the Twitter verse or Xverse I guess is
what it's called now
>> and uh um and and what are you know and
if you do a customer interview like what
like that's still all data it's just
that that is you know a little harder to
distill and quantify although now with
AI you know we better better tools for
synthesizing so that that's all data in
my mind and it's just all trying to help
us understand what is really happen what
is the phenomenon that's happening in
reality and how do we understand it you
still have to go and invent and create
and dream and there's no formula and
there's no science that will tell you
exactly how you're going to make a hit
um you can experiment which is allows
you to try more things maybe and um and
more rig rigorously understand what that
does in the short term you're going to
have to it's all very contextualized
right because it tests don't tell you
what will happen in the very long run
and That's still get again that's all
still data you still have to synthesize
and figure out what to do. So that's
this thing I'll say diagnose with data
and treat with design. I think the
second thing I will usually talk tell
designers about is I find that sometimes
and maybe it's the let's call it the uh
false precision of numbers that we kind
of fall into, right? Because it's like
okay we got these numbers and the
numbers go up. It's like no, the fact
that you still have to choose which
things you look at is an art, not a
science. And your interpretation of if
the number went up 5%, is that good? Is
that not good? Is also an interpretation
and is an is an art, not a science. It's
just that sometimes I think we can give
ourselves this feeling and I get it like
we sometimes there's this instinct to
want to control things and we want
everything to be button up and we want
to know that if we did ABC everything
will be great. our career is going to be
awesome. Our product's going to rocket
ship. And I think designers are rightly
often pushing back and saying, "No, the
reality is like this stuff is ambiguous
and there's uncertainty and we can never
know for sure." And I think all that is
quite true. So the other thing I would
say that I really support is like you
just actually can't make a really great
product by thinking you can AB test your
way into it. So that's I fundamentally
believe that. But I don't think we
should throw the baby out with the bath
water. I think there's actually, you
know, these it's not either or. It's not
like data or design. It's like these are
just tools for us to use. And I would
say every amazing designer that I've
ever met is absolutely obsessed with
trying to get a better understanding of
reality. They want to know what users
really think. They want to know what
they're really doing. if they could read
every user's minds, that's like the the
thing we would all want, right? As a
designer is like, if I could just know
what everyone is thinking and feeling
every time they used it, my life would
be a lot easier because then I would be
able to build better and better things.
And so that's what it's trying to help
us do. It isn't perfect. No metric is
going to tell you whatever ever we hope
that it can in terms of the the true
certainty and precision, but it doesn't
mean we can't use it to better our our
product development.
>> I was going to say exactly what you just
said, which is every great designer that
I've worked with was obsessed with data
in the most leaning into the data versus
designers that are just like, nah, I
think I'm going to I have a sense of
what's right and why why would we let
that tell us what to do? And to your
point, it's not going to tell you what
to do. It'll tell you where
opportunities arise. Let me take us back
to the management chat and maybe just
let me ask something broad. What what do
you feel is the biggest change in the
role and day-to-day work and life of a
manager these days with the rise of AI?
>> I think that managing change, it's
always been manager's job to manage
change and there's always the chaos of
what's going on. I just think the rate
of change is accelerating and we've seen
that over the last couple of decades.
And so I find that there's just a great
deal more uncertainty that people have
about things like we all you know where
is AI going to be in two years from now
I don't know who know who really knows
right and so you know are we going to
have AGI in 5 years that kind of changes
a lot about the landscape not to mention
I think there's quite a lot of fear that
many organizations are feeling you know
it's like if my career has always been
in design and now these tools are
getting better and better at what I'm
doing, then holy what happens to
my career and my future and do I need to
pivot? Do I need to learn different
things? And so, it's this change. It's
this feeling of uncertainty. And I think
a lot of times managers have to deal
with that in addition to what you were
saying before, which is they also have
to learn these new skills, which is
managing AI and managing kind of like
these more powerful tools in their
arsenal of trying to get things done. So
that is very different I think than
maybe you know 10, 20, 30 years ago. Um
and so I think that the skills that
become more important are obviously
communication, feedback, compassion, but
just being able to work with humans and
to have them understand that like yes,
we are in a state of change. I think
every leader has to do this now. every
startup founder that I know, every CEO
is how do you land this message that
things are changing and we need to be
very like we need to be very open to
change. If we go and stick to our old
ways, we're probably going to get left
behind. Uh our product's going to get
left behind. Even our way of doing
things is going to be left behind. So,
we need to change, right? We we need to
change our product and we need to change
the way that we work as we all talked
about in terms of smaller teams, more
nimble, blah blah blah. Um but at the
same time it's like how how do we do
that in a way that doesn't just freak
everyone out and it's like ah it's chaos
everything's changing like so so I think
about this metaphor a lot of like the
willow tree which is like the willow
tree is a very sturdy tree you know it's
um it's it it can survive a lot of
storms disasters etc but it's also very
flexible like the branches are very very
flexible and that's in some ways what
allows it to be very sturdy so I Think
today management is really about this
idea of like be sturdy while being
flexible and that is a very hard thing
to pull off but I think that's like at
least when I even go into be like like
be like the willow tree Julie just
imagine the willow tree and like try and
channel that as as the the kind of
feeling of of what it is that we're
trying to do together.
>> This reminds me of a couple things from
other guests. Uh I had Mark Beni off on
the podcast and I asked him just how do
you deal with all this change? Things
are it's like agents now. It was uh I
don't know a there's a GI coming as you
said just like how do you survive
through this and his advice is just he's
like I'm always just like good this is
great I I this is what we want this is
exciting we have so much opportunity
it's just not boring we can always
reinvent and he's always embracing what
this is good and I just I'll never
forget the way he responded to that
>> I think if you don't think it's good
it's kind of a painful way to live it'll
be very very difficult over these next
So, I do think that it all things be
equal, lean into it. Like, if you can
wake up every day and see it as
opportunity and excitement rather than
fear. Again, they're all flip sides of
the same coin. But I think if we can
lean more into what could it be while
recognizing that the other side does
exist and it's still there. And I think
if managers who try to pretend like it
isn't there, like it's all good, no
one's upset, etc., But there's something
also missing about just addressing and
being able to be like, "Yeah, it's hard.
Change is hard. We're probably going to
get upset. We're going to have some
chaos. Like, this is going to happen,
but we will work through it because
we're going to be flexible and we're
going to be able to put our eyes on the
big picture of what is possible, which
is exciting."
>> There's another quote that stuck that
kind of came up as you were talking. I
forget who it was exactly. Maybe Kevin
Wheel, maybe Mike Kger. They said that
this is the most normal things will be
ever.
>> Like it will only get weirder.
>> And I think giving people that sense of
like, okay, just enjoy this normal
because this is going to be only weirder
because we'll at least give people an
expectation, real expectations of where
things might be going.
>> Yes. Yes.
>> What a time to be alive.
>> What a time.
>> Okay. Let me uh zoom out even further
and chat about I want to ask you just
outside of AI management in many ways is
unchanged. It's still a lot of the same
work managing people helping them be
successful producing great work. What
are just some of the I'd say maybe most
timeless most important uh lessons that
you think managers especially new
managers still don't totally understand
need to hear more. What are just some
that come to mind and then we'll see
where this goes.
The first thing that comes to mind is
the importance of managing yourself and
understanding yourself. This was chapter
five of my book. It's called managing
yourself. In fact, when I wrote it, I
kind of wanted to be chapter one. And
then my publisher was like, well, maybe
you should get into some of the tactical
like people don't necessarily think
managing other people or managing team
starts with them. But I really do
fundamentally believe this because I
think all of us are of course like any
human being, we have things that we're
strong at. We have things that we're
weak at. And I am a very big believer
that every strength is its own weakness
and every weakness is a strength.
There's no such thing as you're going to
somehow, you know, get every dimension
to be 100%. In fact, I think one of the
most interesting concepts that we can
like or frameworks for myself and also
even this is also kind of like a data
frame concept is this concept of
dimensionality. So what dimensionality
means is like you're a human being but
we can kind of look at you in infinite
dimensions. There is for example how
good is Lenny at throwing an axe? That's
one dimension. There's
>> pretty good.
>> How good is Lenny at uh being a podcast
uh moderator? Fantastic.
>> So so okay, thank you.
>> How good is Lenny at doing a zero to one
type of project in the AI space? Right.
So again just you can think about these
as infinite dimensions and the reality
is each of our profiles is very unique.
It's like a fingerprint you know. So for
you it's like these are all these areas
that you're really great at you know
much better like in the top 1% and then
there's some areas we're in the top 10%
then there's some areas where you're
like kind of average and then there's
some dimensions in which you're worse
than average compared to other people.
And that's just true for all of us. And
what I like about that is therefore if
you if you take that as the model,
right? Things that then you you realize
that none of these dimensions are you
entirely. So we can be you know I can
make a comment like Lenny your ax
throwing really could use some
improvement. And ideally you're not like
Julie is saying I'm a bad person. I am a
I my identity is at risk. Right? Because
it's just one dimension of who you are.
Uh but what happens sometimes is that we
can get very attached to certain
dimensions because we start to think
that that's who we are and I think
managers can do that. um and uh clearly
individuals, you know, on their teams.
And when that happens, it starts to get
very difficult to have, I think, more
objective conversations about, okay,
what can you get better at? What can you
get worse at? And so, I say all this
because I think this framework for me at
least and many people that I've talked
to has helped them realize that somebody
can give you feedback or you can be
maybe not great at certain dimensions.
You can have room to improve and that's
not who you are because you are all of
these infinite dimensions in one. And
none of them is is um representative of
like your true worth as an individual. I
am a big believer that we are all
beautiful and worthy and sure we have
all of these skills and yes we want to
improve those skills but it does not
speak to like who we whether we are
worthy or not by saying whether you know
we are strong or weak in these skills.
And so I think if you can take that and
really internalize that then you can
look at yourself a little bit more
objectively as a manager and you can
realize that there are areas where
you're going to be really strong. There
are areas where you have biases and
often they are one and the same. So I'll
give an example. People have often told
me as like I would get this in my
performance reviews from managers in the
past like hey Julie you're really
thoughtful. Uh so you know when you
think about something you have like a a
way to think about it you've clearly
thought about it in depth and you've got
like these frameworks and all this
that's a great thing and then on the
flip side I'll get feedback like well
Julie you know you're you don't really
say a lot um in in a dynamic discussion
like you're kind of quiet and uh you
know you don't really think that quickly
on your feet and what you realize is
like these are kind of again two like
because I don't do that And I'm not just
off the cuff. That's what allows me to
oftentimes be very very thoughtful,
right? Or like that at least again when
I was younger like it's sort of it's
very clear that that that particular
weakness is also very much speaking to a
particular strength which is I am the
kind of person that doesn't always have
a snap judgment. I have to really think
about it and internalize it and sometime
get to how I feel and then I can share
it and present it in the world. And so
just knowing that about me is supremely
helpful. Um now doesn't mean of course
that I can never get better at this
thing. But what I often think about is
mastery is where we realize that both of
these we can get better at. And what we
want to do is just
figure out in the context what makes
sense to be. So I got this feedback and
I'm like cool. One of the things I need
to work on is figuring out how to be
more open in person, how to speak a
little bit more clearly in person. Maybe
say things like, "I don't know exactly
how I feel about it yet, but this is
what I'm thinking right now." Like,
there's still clear tactics that will
allow me to be a more effective team
member and to do a better job in the
context of what I'm trying to do with my
team. So I've tried to build those
skills but the meta skill is now being
able to step back and say okay in
certain context it is really important
that we move fast and we are decisive
and we just do something and even if
it's not perfect we just kind of have to
do it and if I struggle with that I
should realize that that's an area to
improve upon. But there are other
contexts in which the right thing to do
is actually to take a step back and be
very thoughtful and to not rush into
decisions. And so that's like so what I
want to get to is not like let's reject
this strength or this weakness, but just
know that that's like where we come
from. That's naturally we might be wired
in a particular way. Our growth often
looks like getting better at doing the
opposite, but not rejecting again the
thing that we're good at, but rather
over time getting to this balance where
we can read the context in the situation
and know should I lean a little more
thoughtful or is this a time where I
need to try and be a little more
decisive and just share what I need to
what's on my mind right now? I love this
advice that things that we are
incredible at have a downside and
oftentimes the feedback we're getting is
is something we're not great at. There's
like a good version of that that people
appreciate.
>> And I was going to ask you and I I think
you answered most of this, but just when
you got this feedback of, hey, Julie,
you're not speaking enough in these
meetings. You're not uh contributing
quickly enough. Uh it sounds like so one
option is just like, okay, cool. That's
me. That's how I am. and I'm just going
to solve the problem this other way and
I'm just not going to change anything.
What I heard you say is find
opportunities where that's actually you
want to actually change that behavior
even though it doesn't come naturally wi
in specific situations where things are
moving fast. Um I guess just how far do
you recommend people push themselves in
things they're not great at versus
leaning further further into their
things their their strengths. Let's say
>> I think that's a really great question.
So the way I think about it is it is
very dependent on what is your goal. So
for example, let's say that you are
let's even take for example IC's versus
managers. I think often about the
pathway of an IC an individual
contributor as wanting to deepen a craft
like you just you love this thing and
you just want to get better and better
and better at this very specific skill
or this craft, right? So think about in
our dimension infinite like you pick a
couple dimensions like I just want these
to be I want to be like the top 01% and
that's that's kind of the pathway of
extending as an IC.
Now, if that's your high level goal and
you're like, I want to be able, let's
say your high level goal is, I want to
be able to do this, you know, 10 or
hours a day because I love it and I want
to be able to support myself doing it,
meaning I get paid and I have like a
great job and I want, you know, to um
have a bunch of impact in the world by
doing this thing, right? So, again, you
still have goals. Then you have to see
okay does my strategy of just deepening
these things um is that is there a
pathway to reach my goals according to
that and if there is awesome then if
someone's like hey do you want to be a
manager you're like nope don't need to
because these are my goals and this
pathway actually allows me to do that
but if somehow you get to a point where
I don't know the skill you really want
to perfect is not something that may be
commercially viable in the world that's
going to somehow allow you to buy the
the big mansion that you want to buy to
support your family, then I think you
have to ask yourself, okay, so if I just
do this, it's not going to cut it. I
might actually need to learn some of
these other skills in order to be able
to fulfill the job that is going to be
valuable enough that people are going to
pay me a bunch of money at this certain
level so that I can afford my mansion.
So, I just think it has to go back to
like what are your goals? And there are
cases in which yes like it supports it
will support your goal to do this and to
deepen your craft and there are cases in
which it won't and I think it's
important it's a very individual
question for each person but what I
often think suffering is is when these
things are not align
so what you want is like the giant
mansion and all of that and that but
you're like but I also just want to
spend all my time perfecting my egg
omelette and then you're just like in
this tension place and you it's very
hard to feel satisfied and fulfilled
because you're a little bit like oh why
doesn't the world value my my deep egg
omelet skills um like okay you can be
egg omelet you just have to you know
maybe not do this thing or if you want
this thing you may actually need to be
better at just egg omelets like perhaps
you need to expand your repertoire of
cuisines and like go and build a
Michelin star restaurant or something.
>> This is really good advice. It's not
just like definitely always work on your
weaknesses or don't worry about them.
It's if you need to do this thing to
achieve this goal that you have. Make
sure you understand what your goal is
and then is this thing a thing you need
to work on. For example, if you want to
become a VP, you probably need to be
really good in big important meetings
and not being on the spot and just not,
you know, waiting until everything's
over and then sharing an email of your
all your thoughts.
>> That's right.
>> Um, yeah. For me, I actually went
through a period where I was like, I do
not want to get promoted. I'm so happy
in this very specific role. Just like
leave me alone. And and and that path is
very different from the skills I need to
build to be a manager. And then things
change and then okay now these are the
things I need to work on.
>> Yeah. I love that you knew that about
yourself because I think it's so easy
for you know a young person to go into
their careers and everyone is telling
them maybe their whole family has been
telling them like you need to get you
need to level up. You need to get paid
more. You need to get that manager
title. You need to get a VP. And at a
certain point I think sometimes people
opt into this without knowing what
they're actually signing up for. Like
what are the tradeoffs and is that
really what you want to do? Does that
really align with your passions? And of
course, you know, sometimes we have to
again it's like it's a compromise for
us, right? But we get to design like we
get to design what are goals and what's
the right pathway. Um and I go back to
usually when people are unhappy it's
because these things are a little bit
out of sync. Like they want this big
thing, but they don't actually they're
not actually excited about what it takes
to do that thing and therefore it's just
going to be a mismatch. And along those
lines, uh it sounds like, oh, sure, I
can design my life and design my role.
But what I find is if you at least first
of all know what you'd love and ideally
do and then at least mention that to
your manager, it often is a lot more
possible than you think.
>> 100%. I think it's so important to be
like we often also have this mental
model of like oh our managers are a
judge and they're going to judge me on
whether or not I got it I did well I
should get a promotion I should be fired
so there's this sometimes fear that
people have but I think in the very best
relationships the manager is like a
guide it's like look the manager has a
job and if you understand your manager's
job which is how to get outcomes better
outcomes from the team and also you
understand what exactly would your
manager consider success for the team?
It also makes it easier for you to then
be like, "Oh, well, if I do this
project, then that clearly seems like
it's very, you know, direct path to
creating value for the team." And that
also is a kind of project that suits my
skills. It's something I'm excited
about. Like you should suggest that to
your manager. But the other is true,
right? So you would know that if you
actually asked your manager, what is
your job and what do you consider
success to be and what is your greatest
hopes and dreams? And then you might be
able to help your own career and
yourself um because you know that
context. And conversely, if you say,
"Hey manager, these are my hopes and
dreams. This is what I think I'm good
at. I really want to get better at this
skill. You know, I really want to get
that VP promotion, but I don't know what
it entails. Can you tell me like what
does it take?" That's a really wonderful
conversation as well because then you'll
get all of that context and then you can
actually decide whether you want to do
it or not. And if you want to then ask
your manager for help, okay, if you see
opportunities that are going to help me
become a better presenter or increase my
communication, please tell me. Even
better, if you have feedback for me
about communication, I want to hear it
because that's what's going to help me
grow in this particular skill. And so it
becomes this collaborative relationship
much more so than this almost like
adversarial like I'm trying to get you
to give me a promotion and you're trying
to get me to like work harder. Like it's
yeah like that is not a a very good
vibe. There's a It reminds me of a guest
post by Ethan Evans that I'll link to
that has a really good framework for how
to actually do exactly what you're
talking about called the magic loop
where it it's kind of a framework for
figuring out what to work on and how to
help your manager see you're capable of
stuff and earn that trust.
>> This episode is brought to you by
Postthog, the product platform your
engineers actually want to use. Post Hog
has all the tools that founders,
developers, and product teams need like
product analytics, web analytics,
session replays, heat maps,
experimentation, surveys, LLM
observability, air tracking, and more.
Everything Post Hawk offers comes with a
generous free tier that resets every
month. More than 90% of customers use
Post Hawk for free. You are going to
love working with a team this
transparent and technical. You'll see
engineers landing pull requests for your
issues and their support team provides
code level assistance when things get
tricky. Post hog lets you have all your
data in one place. Beyond analytics
events, their data warehouse enables you
to sync data from your Postgress
database, Stripe, HubSpot, S3, and many
more sources. Finally, their new AI
product analyst, Maxai, helps you get
further faster. Get help building
complex queries and setting up your
account with an expert who's always
standing by. Sign up today for free at
postthhog.com/lenny
and make sure to tell them Lenny sent
you. That's postthogg.com/lenny.
So along the lines of timeless manager,
especially new manager advice, you've
shared a bunch. Is there anything else
that you think is really important,
really interesting, valuable?
>> Feedback is one of the other topics that
I am super duper passionate about. And
my general impression for both myself,
everyone I've worked with is that we
don't value feedback enough or we don't
kind of think about enough. Again,
companies have these performance cycles
and so we're all like, "Yes, every six
months we're going to go and do these
reviews." That's when I'll get feedback.
But feedback really in my mind ideally
should be like a daily practice because
the thing that matters for us in the
long run as a team is how quickly are we
getting better.
So a team that just gets 1% better every
week compared to a team that gets 1%
better a month is even if they start off
at a much lower baseline is going to
outperform in a very short amount of
time the team that doesn't get better.
And so what is the best tool for us to
get better? It is feedback. And what I
think about in feedback is is it's very
similar to what we said earlier about
data and metrics. It's essentially
trying to put your hypotheses and test
them against reality. So as an example,
maybe I have this perception right now
that I am a positive and engaging
speaker. So I have this sense that like
I'm smiling and I'm very engaging and
I'm telling great stories. But is that
really true? I don't know. Like the
reality is that I'm often biased and we
all have, you know, we know these like
psychological effects, right? We're like
sometimes the Dunning Krueger effect
like people think they're way more
expert at something than they actually
are. You ask people, "Hey, are you
better than average driver?" And it's
like 70 or 80% of people like, "Yes, I'm
better than average." How could that
possibly be? We have biases. And
imposter syndrome is a bias on the other
side. It's like me feeling, "Oh, I suck.
I don't actually belong here." Whereas
that also is a bias. Like it may not
actually be true. In fact, I might very
well be here and other people value my
contribution. So we are just wildly out
of sync a lot of times in our
perceptions of ourselves, our strengths,
our weaknesses, what's going on. And the
way that we're going to understand and
truly get better is we need other people
to reflect back what is actually their
their truth. And the way I think about
it is like I'm going to ask you for
feedback after this podcast episode and
you're going to tell me something and
what you're going to do is you're going
to give me a gift because it'll be a
gift of reflecting something back of
what you see that I can't see. Right?
Just like if I have a leaf in the back
of my head, I can't see that. And so if
you tell me, hey, Julie, I have a leaf.
Oh, wow. Thank you. Okay, maybe I can
get rid of the leaf or or whatnot. Um,
but that is what feedback is. It is
essentially reflection back. It helps us
calibrate to re reality and it allows me
to get this information about whether or
not um I'm moving in the direction of my
goals. I I love that. I completely
agree. The challenge for most people, as
you know, is giving feedback that people
receive and don't feel defensive about
and then receiving feedback and not
being like, "Oh, no, they don't know.
They don't know anything. How dare they
say this about me?" Could you give us a
maybe a tip or two for delivering
feedback well and for receiving feedback
well and maybe even just like seeking?
How do you get more feedback? Because
this all makes a lot of sense. Most of
the time people don't get any feedback.
>> The best way the first tip on getting
feedback or delivering hard feedback is
first go and actually establish that our
relationship is one in which we value
each other's contribution. We want to
help each other grow and therefore we're
going to be the kind of people that want
to give feedback to each other every
week. So when you first start working
with someone, don't wait until something
bad has happened. Now you have to give
them feedback because that's already a
pressurized situation. Start by saying,
"Hey, really excited to work with you. I
feel like our best collaboration is I
want you to help me get better. I think
I'm good at this stuff. I'm not so good
at this stuff. What about you? Okay, you
think you're good at this stuff. You're
not. How about we just work together and
we just help each other get better at
these things? And the way we're going to
do that is all feedback is open. I want
you to tell me everything. Ideally,
you're going to then be say, "Yeah, I
want you to tell me everything." And
we've already established that.
>> And this is colleagues or manager or
colleagues.
>> It's like everyone. It's like people
you're dating. It's like, you know, your
children like it's it can be with
everyone. Just establishing what kind of
relationship do we want to have? I think
most people want to opt into a
relationship where you can be close, you
can be tight with one another. You can
say things to one another and not have
to hide behind like I think most people
will opt into it and if you opt into it,
everything gets easier down the road. So
the first thing is get everyone to opt
in that like this is the kind of
relationship that we want to have. One
trickle throw out that uh I've heard
that worked really well along these same
lines is asking people would you prefer
do you prefer feedback in the moment or
do you prefer it kind of uh every once
in everyone every month or or every week
or something like that and everyone's
like no no in the moment and just like
tell me as soon as something happens and
then that gives you that freedom to just
okay yeah let me give you feedback here.
>> Yeah. So if you get people to opt in yes
I want us to have a great relationship I
want us to help each other get better. I
want feedback. That's 60% of the hard
part of delivering difficult feedback
later on. So then the second tactic I
will say is that when you actually give
the feedback, it helps a lot. First you
have to check am I actually giving this
feedback because it's in the spirit of
trying to help
one another. And if the answer is yes,
then we're we've like, you know, moved
from 60% to 80%. It's going to go well,
right? But what can often happen is I'm
feeling like something happens, you do
something, it triggers me because I
don't know, I had like a bad experience
about that type of thing before and I'm
kind of feeling mad and I want to be
right. Like if my my real rationale for
why I want to give you feedback is I
want to validate myself. I want to be
right. I want to tell you you're wrong.
I want to punish you. It's not going to
go well. it's just already there. It's
there's no way you can deliver it and
somehow unless you're a tremendous
actor, um it's just not going to go
well. So, you have to first check your
intention. But if you've done that,
you're like, "No, no, no. I thought
about it. I'm calm now. I'm not like see
seeing red. I really think that Lenny is
just not aware that when he says this,
it makes me and other people feel left
out or whatever it is, right?" Then I
need to be able to give it to you. And
so usually then if you're like, "Okay,
now I might be nervous because I don't
want to offend you. I really value our
relationship. How am I going to tell
you, you know, I don't want you to get
defensive." What then the third tactic I
have is just say that out loud. Like if
I sit down with you and I say, "Lenny,
I'm so nervous right now is I want to
give you some feedback and I'm really
worried that it's going to impact our
relationship and I so value our
relationship and I don't want that to
happen, but I also feel like
>> it's just going to help you to hear it
if you can." That does so much of the
work of of it's it's humanizing, right?
It's like you're going to be you're
going to realize that I'm going out on a
limb. I'm being really vulnerable and
likely you're going to hear that so much
more than if I just find a way to like
drop it like just like lobby it over
because it's so difficult. Just actually
lean into the fact that it is difficult
and expose that because that builds a
lot of human connection.
>> This is amazing advice. Very tactical.
Okay. Uh is there anything else? So,
we've talked about a bunch of timeless
pieces of manager wisdom, things that
people need to hear, especially as new
managers. Is there anything else that
you think is really important that I
think people are just not fully groing
for being great managers?
>> I think the idea of win-win, I think
about that all the time in my mind. And
I go back to because I think that often
we have this story in our heads that
sometimes things are adversarial.
As a manager, I'm trying to get people
to be more productive. So, I'm trying to
get them to do a thing that maybe they
don't want to do. I'm going to try and
get them to work harder or I'm going to
um somehow put more pressure on them.
Like, if you start thinking like that,
that's not a win-win way to be thinking,
right? That's like you saying my getting
better outcomes has to come at the
expense of somebody else losing
something. Um, and I think if you start
thinking like that, it's very difficult
to come up with a strategy or to truly
be successful. But if you say, "Look,
actually my job is to figure out how to
create win-wins." So, I actually don't
want I don't want somebody over the long
run um to feel like what I've done is
just create a ton of pressure for them
and now they're super burnt out and
they're quick because that's not good
for our team. That's not good for me.
That's not good for our long-term
relationship. How do we find a like how
do we find the solution that can be
win-win? And I think if you think like
that, a lot of things get easier. So,
for example, with new managers, I think
this is true for me too. The first time
I had to tell someone that
they're not they shouldn't be a part of
this team was extremely fraught for me.
And the main reason was because I'm
putting myself in their shoes and I'm
imagining that this is truly horrible
and I've just done a huge disservice to
this person and that's like the most
awful thing. But there's another way to
look at it which is hey if this person's
on the team they probably want to be
successful. They want to do great work.
They want to be valued. They want to
grow their career. if this is not the
place for them because it doesn't align
with their true interests and the things
that are going to help them be
successful is just not the thing that
they either want to do or can do. Um, at
this point, it doesn't do that person
any good for me to somehow try to
continue to make it. It's actually going
to be miserable. Like I'm going back to
like prolonging that misery state. And
so sometimes a win-win thing is to just
say, "Look, it's not working. And I know
I I respect and value you so much that I
know you want to do something that you
can be proud of and you can grow in and
that's going to be really valued. And
right here, what we got, this isn't it.
That's like a win-win way of looking at
the situation, not a like, you know, oh
my firing them is just definitely going
to be a horrible, you know, I'm not
trying to say it's not going to be hard.
Obviously, it's hard, but it's in the in
the the mentality and the the the mental
model, I think, makes all the difference
because it's going to be different in
the way that I convey it to them. It's
going to be different in why this
actually in the grander scheme of things
may be great and it's going to reduce
this adversarial feeling where they're
now going to see me as like an enemy or
somebody with all this power who's
making, you know, uh choices that impact
them and they feel powerless. It has to
be a collaboration. And I think if it's
not win-win, if and I could be wrong. I
would say, "I don't think it's right."
The person could actually say, "No,
you're wrong." And that would actually
be great information because then maybe
we can go back and we can find a way to
make it win-win.
>> Yeah, I was just going to say they have
to believe this. You can't just s make
it sound like this. Here's the win.
You're getting let go. It's a huge win
for you.
>> Uh but in reality, the way you phrased
it is actually almost always true. Like
this is just not a place that you will
be happy and succeed at, and it's better
you go do something else.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. I'm going to keep fishing in this
pool to see what else we got, but when
we run out, let me know. Is there
anything else that you think people
should know, should hear, especially new
managers that um they're still not fully
getting?
>> I think being aware of PE your own
energy and conviction is really really
important. So I go back like a lot of
these themes as you can see go back to
like you have to first understand this
about yourself and have the right
mindset and when you do it becomes much
easier to be able to be impactful with
other people. So this is another one. I
think it's very difficult for managers
to be able, you know, we talked a lot
about the three pillars of what are the
the major um uh tools of a manager,
right? The first is people. And so we
talked a lot about like the importance
of dimensionality and feedback and
helping reflect and grow people. I think
the second one is around purpose.
Purpose is like what are we here to do?
What's our northstar? And I think it's
very hard to actually convey that if you
don't have conviction yourself. And so
watching your conviction is really
important particularly since a lot of
people who are managers you often start
out not as like the founder and the CEO
of the company but you you might be like
the middle manager. So in some ways you
don't you didn't like create the vision
but you are in some ways expected to
execute it or take a piece of it and do
it. And I find that sometimes what new
managers don't pay attention to enough
is what is their true belief. Like they
feel like they might have to be like a
soldier. So they just get orders and
they have to execute it. But it really
makes a difference if they themselves
have gone through the work of of of
thinking through wait why are we doing
this? Does do I believe this strategy?
Does it make sense or not? And if it
doesn't make sense to go and actually
have the conversation with, you know,
their manager or whoever else just so
they un they can get to alignment on
like I really believe in what I'm doing
because if you don't really believe in
what you're doing and or you're just
kind of paring the thing that got passed
through the organization, it's very hard
for you to then be able to help other
people see what that magic is or to be
actually really effective as as a person
who can hold that vision and that
purpose. So, I just think you have to
really check in with yourself on like,
wait, I I know we're told to do this and
this is what we have to do, but how do
we really feel about it? Because if you
don't feel good about it, then it's not
going to be very likely that the
project's going to succeed. I can tell
you right now, every single manager I've
ever managed where they're like, I don't
really think this is a good idea. The
there's no case where I can think of
where the project somehow turned out to
be like wildly successful. This is such
a classic challenge of managers is
getting things done that you don't
really agree with. And uh I can't help
but ask you for advice on someone that
isn't that but in that place of just
okay we have this feature our co is
prioritizing. I just this is not a good
idea but I need to have a brave face and
not make it sound like I'm just being
told what to do and I'm just reporting
orders. I I don't believe in this. Like
you don't want to do that. You become a
terrible unsuccessful manager and you
people lose trust in you. What's your
advice to folks that are in that place
of just how to find that balance?
>> So, I think first if you feel that way,
you got to actually find a way to get it
out and and engage in dialogue. So, if
you're like, I think my manager told me
to do this, I think it's a terrible
idea. You got to talk to your manager
about it or you got to talk to the CEO
or whoever and feel because once you
engage in a dialogue, what will often
happen is you'll learn more like you'll
have new information, you'll have new
assumptions and maybe you'll have
influenced a project in some manner. But
often the more you can learn about okay
why did some other smart people feel
like we should do this and what parts of
it do I believe and what parts am I more
skeptical about like you can probably
decompose it and from a blanket it's
good or bad to like okay there's this is
a hypothesis this is a hypothesis is a
hypothesis I might kind of believe this
one the reason I don't like the proposal
I don't believe this particular
hypothesis but I believe these other
ones right and so when you can start to
get one level deeper into breaking it
down into a set of assumptions that
makes it much easier because then you'll
likely find something that you do kind
of resonate with and you might be able
to then steer things like okay that
hypothesis doesn't you can't I I believe
and disagree and commit but now we can
be very specific we can isolate the
thing that like and and what we can also
often do is like okay the reason I
didn't like this proposal is because I
have this this like I believe that this
assumption is wrong right so for
and they come up with like a really
stupid example, but you know, your
suggestion is I know we have a great
idea. We're going to go and put a
lemonade stand on every block. And my
core assumption is people do not like
lemonade. That's not the hot beverage
right now. And so I there therefore I
think this is stupid plan. But if I talk
to you about it and you're like, "No,
no, this is the core assumption we
disagree on." Likely what starts to
unfold is like, "Well, let's just can we
get some data? Can we get some
information? like can we just is there a
quicker way to validate whether people
like lemonade? Perhaps we should just
test it in one market before we go and
open up the lemonade stands across the
entire 50 states. And so what happens is
we can likely get to the actual specific
area and come up with something. And
then if I have to now share with my
team, you know, we're going to try this
hypothesis. I'm not sure how I feel
about it, but I actually do think like I
don't know for sure. And you know, our
our CEO seems to think this is but we're
just going to test it and we're going to
do the test in a way where that's what
we want to find out is like do people
really love like do 18 to 25 year olds
love lemonade if we put them on these
neighborhood what college campuses right
so it becomes very specific and
everyone's like well yeah I'm I don't
know for sure but like I'm happy to go
and and test that and and commit to it.
This is such a good advice. And there's
also you could layer on. Here's the
things I do agree with and believe.
Here's the ways that I see this as
totally right. Here's the piece that I'm
not so sure about, but that's why we're
going to run this test. And here's why
it's the smallest version of this test
and why it's a great idea just to figure
it out. And we'll we'll show them. I
mean, you probably don't want to say
that. Uh, as you give this answer, it's
so interesting. I almost want to do a
whole new episode with you later of just
like common conundrums managers have,
challenges that every manager runs into
that are really difficult to figure out
on the spot. We could save that for the
future. Okay, I'm going to take us to a
couple recurring uh themes on this
podcast, occasional recurring that every
episode uh corners that we uh take
guests to. The first is I want to take
us to AI corner. And what I like to do
in AI corner is ask what's a way that
you've figured out to use AI in your
work or your life that's just really
interesting, really useful.
>> Well, I already shared a lot about
education and learning, but I'll share
maybe a a more fun story. So, it's my
kids birthdays. One of them just passed
and my middle son's birthday is in two
weeks and my daughter's birthday is
>> by the way, the birthday just passed.
The kid didn't pass.
>> Okay. Yes, the birthday passed. That's
right. That's right. The birthday
passed. It's my kids' birthdays. And one
of my goals this year was to try and
build them something. So give them a
present that has me going back to being
the IC and making something for them.
And AI makes this really fun. And so I
just for my youngest son who is six
years old. Uh this is a an idea that I
stole from Eric Anton. And um if if you
know Eric, have you had him on your
podcast?
>> I haven't. I uh I'm trying to. He
actually sent me the what is it? The
It's what is it called? methophone.
>> Methophone.
Check this out. It's a It's like instead
of holding the phone in your pocket, you
hold this thing and then you walk around
with it and everyone's like, "What the
hell is that?"
>> Yeah. I too am the proud owner of a
methhone and the next version upgrades
with the little stickers.
>> But I don't have
>> Eric is great. You should definitely
have him on your on your He's such a
creative character. Um and one time I
saw him with a parrot on his shoulder
and I was like, "Why do you have a
parrot on your shoulder?" And he's like,
"Well, you can talk to my parrot. It's a
talking parrot." And then I spoke to the
parrot. And the parrot spoke back to me.
And what had happened is that he had
hooked up a microphone. He like kind of
surgically went into the parrot and
added like a microphone and a speaker
and connected it to uh voice mode on
chatbt. So that and and it spoke in I
think like a pirate voice. I was like,
"This is the best idea." And like my
six-year-old son is really into
raccoons. He has like a huge amount of
raccoon stuffies. I was like, I want a
raccoon that can talk to him. So, I made
that um using the Eric Antino method,
but it was great. It was a huge hit. And
now my middle son's birthday is coming
up and he is really into
parody. Like, he loves video games, so
Minecraft, but what he often listens to
on his Alexa are these parody songs. So,
it'll be like Justin Bieber's hit or
like Gundam style, but they've changed
the lyrics so it becomes like a a video
game parody of some video game that he's
playing. and they're horribly sung, you
know, they're like off tune. It's just
like some person who produced it. And I
was like, well, if he doesn't seem to
mind off King Seeing, I'm going to
create him an album of video game parody
songs and I'm going to create like an
So, I created an app on Replet uh that
that what and what it does is it you
just give it a song like uh you know
this is Justin Bieber's Baby and you
link to a Spotify song and I give him
some context like oh Lock likes playing
Kingdom Rush right now. we have like an
inside joke about um you know the
gargoyles being free money like whatever
it is I just give it a bunch of cont
like write me a song that just kind of
personalizes it and it's a parody of
this particular video game and it writes
me the lyrics it's pretty good at doing
this it's like pretty high quality and
then um and it you know again it does it
according to the beats of the music and
then I just sing it and record it and
then I got myself a song so I'm creating
an album of this which I'm going to give
to him he's not going to hear this
podcast so no one spoil it to him I
think he's going to go publish after his
uh birthday. But I'm very excited about
this.
>> Wait, so you're going to be the one
singing? Yes.
>> The song?
>> Yes.
>> I thought you were going to use Sununa
or some AI thing to actually sing it.
>> No, I think I'm going to sing it myself.
Um and it just like all of this made it
so easy. Like all I have to do is just
read like record. And again, he's not
into I'm not a very good singer, but
he's not into or he's not um it doesn't
turn them off to have to hear off key.
>> Wow, that is so be this. This gave me so
many ideas for gifts I can give to kids
in my life. And I just love how I love
how AI is making it I don't know easier
to be a parent in in some ways more
delightful. These are awesome examples.
Okay, I'm going to take this to a
different corner. Contrarian corner.
What's something that you believe that
most other people don't most other
people would disagree with?
>> I believe that
there's infinity in every direction.
So that makes me pretty contrary on
pretty much everything that anyone says.
So if somebody says something like on
Twitter, I sometimes play this game with
myself, which is in what context would
that actually not be true? And I think
the reality is that the world is so or
at least my reality and my understanding
of the reality is that the world is just
infinitely complex. And so for example,
if my kids say something like uh going
outside is boring or taking a walk is
boring or doing something is boring. My
general response will be well it's
because you're not seeing the infinity
that's in that direction. So even for
example something really mundane like
staring at a blank wall.
I think that you can make that actually
deeply deeply interesting because you
can use that as an opportunity to go
into your own mind and to figure out
like how you can make time past or you
can meditate on the the the existence or
meditate on your breath or just be
grateful for the purpose of being alive
and like two people, right? One person
you can say sit in front of a wall for
an hour and they will like my kid and
they will super complain and be like
this is the worst thing ever. But you
can put somebody else like a monk and
they'll have a wonderful experience.
And so it's not really about the
environment or the wall. It's really
about how we see it and whether we can
find the thing that is deep and rich and
infinite in that direction.
>> Wow. This these are some deep answers.
This is very uh I don't know Buddhist
very mindfulness oriented. this I I did
a retreat once and their their advice
was just yeah anytime you're bored just
notice all the things that are going on
around you like what does your seat feel
like right now what does the air feel
like you know what are you hearing right
now and it's exactly what you're saying
there's infinite things to pay attention
to and keep you interested it's hard
hard to actually do that for a long time
and practice that's why it's a practice
>> that's why it's a practice but I I I
repeat that to myself because oftentimes
if I have a bad experience I'm feeling a
certain day. It helps me to realize that
like it's often probably in my head like
it's because I haven't gained the skills
to be able to see the richness and
infinity in that and that's so like I
can maybe work on that and that feels
better than feeling like oh I'm a victim
of my circumstances like this thing
happened to me and like that's so awful
but now I'm powerless I can't do
anything about like that to me is a
worse feeling than the alternative which
is I just don't have the skill yet. I
can recognize it for what it is. I don't
have the skill yet, but I can I can
grow. I can maybe get better at it.
There is a person out there who could do
who had the same situation as me and
feels much more positively than I do.
And don't I want to be more like that
person?
>> That's such a beautiful circle back to
our very first episode, which a lot of
it was on imposter syndrome and
overcoming that and your story there.
So, I love that. That's a maybe a way to
close this conversation. But before we
do that and before we get to our very
exciting lightning round, is there
anything else that you wanted to mention
or share or double down on that we've
talked about?
>> I just want to say thank you. Honestly,
I'm so inspired by the work that you do
know. We've known each other for quite a
while. Um, and I just think from the
very first idea that you had for this
newsletter, for the podcast, it's been
incredible and I think the world gets so
much from it. I'm sure you hear that a
lot, but I am very grateful. Well, I
really appreciate that and I say this
every time we do a chat is just uh this
wouldn't have been possible without you,
Julie. Uh I was inspired by your new
longtime newsletter, the looking glass.
That's essentially my my idea was what
if I do this for product and uh I
started on Medium just like you did and
then I moved to Substack and then it's
like what if I charge for this and then
that worked and then I'm like what if I
do a podcast and then that worked but it
all began with your your concept. So
thank you truly. Yeah, and I think you
do it with so much kindness and
curiosity as you always have. So, I love
that.
>> That's just who I am.
>> Well, with that, we have reached our
very exciting lightning round. I've got
five questions for you. Are you ready?
>> I'm ready.
>> What are two or three books that you
find yourself recommending most to other
people?
>> The first is Zen and the Art of
Motorcycle Maintenance. I absolutely
love that book. It's beautifully
written. It's so deep. Um my whole
philosophy around quality is is
beautifully it really comes a lot of it
comes from that book. The idea and even
all the stuff that we talked about
change what does it mean to be at that
that forefront of change and dynamic
quality. I think he just talks about so
beautifully and so masterfully in in
that book. So old classic but I I try to
reread it every few years or so. Second
is
Conscious Business. It is my favorite
management book. It's a little bit of a
sleeper hit because I actually end up
recommending this one far more than my
own book.
>> Oh wow.
>> I read this one after I wrote my book
and I always tell people that if I read
it before, I'm not sure I would have
written my book because I would have
been like conscious business is really
the book that will that that that um
really really so much resonates. And I
think what um and all of the many of the
things I talked about this idea of
win-win, the idea of like being a
player, not a victim, um and how to
think about work, not just it's a job,
it's but like how do you really think
about aligning it with your own personal
values and what you want to do in the
world. I think that this book really
speaks to that so beautifully. It is
also very tactical. It's got a lot of
really wonderful examples. Um, I will
tell people the cover isn't very
attractive and I think that if you judge
a book by its cover, like this seems
very corporaty. The title also seems
like kind of like what conscious
business and the first chapter is a
little bit more technical, but if you
just could get past it and get into
chapter 2 and you start, you know, with
examples of the soccer team and it's
just like the best management book.
>> That is good uh good advice to get
people over the hump when they look for
it and they're like, "Okay, okay, I'm
gonna stick with it."
>> Yes. And okay, third book. Um, I love
the uh the book Good Inside by Dr.
Becky. It's a parenting book and it's a
very wildly popular parenting book. So,
I really recommend it to all parents.
But I also think it's just a wonderful
book for thinking about relationships
and because parenting is that it's like
a very very deep and intense
relationship and interaction that you
have with another human being. And
there's so many things that I read in
parenting books including good insight
by Dr. Becky that I think like are could
just as well been like a a management or
a team leadership book.
>> Uh I am thinking about trying to ask Dr.
Becky to come on the podcast. I feel
like there could be a lot of synergy
exactly for that reason
>> and she uses d this term sturdy which
you which is inspired maybe your
>> I probably got it I I mean I think she
talks a lot about sturdiness and that
just incepted right in right in here.
>> Yes. Yeah. Her whole thing is creating
being a sturdy parent. Strong but
flexible I imagine. Uh yeah, I love I
love her and I love her stuff. I watch
all her videos on Tik Tok and Emily
Auster. Okay, next question. Uh is there
a movie or TV show you enjoyed?
>> I have not watched anything that I have
no good answer for you. I think the only
thing I watched this year was a rewatch
of La La Land, which I do truly love.
>> So delightful. Okay. Is there a product
you recently discovered that you really
love?
>> I don't think there's anything too new.
I I love granola. I love Repid. I've
used all of the different coding apps.
Cursor is is big on me for for now. Um,
uh, I just got a Madic robot. I think
that's been really delightful so far. At
least the setup. I haven't used it like
a long long term, but it's the setup,
the way that it worked, the the fact
that it had little stickers and you
could make it into a dog or a cat was
like a wonderful experience.
>> The Madic Row bubble link to it. I am
also a huge fan. I'm not an investor.
That's uh essentially Whimo meets Roomba
for folks that don't know anything about
it. It's like a very sophisticated robot
vacuum built by like AI vision people.
>> Oh, I just thought of one more as well.
Uh the Limitless pendant.
>> So disclaimer, I am an uh a small
investor in Limitless. But uh what I
love about it is that um so okay, it's a
pendant. You wear it and it just records
everything that's going on and later it
summarizes things and it gives you
feedback. And I don't usually wear it
out because I find that maybe other
people feel like awkward that I'm like
recording everything. I usually try to
get people's permission. But I do wear
it at home when I'm with my kids. And
one of the best things that the pendant
does is it gives me feedback on
parenting.
>> What?
>> Like automatically or use throw it into
chatg? No, it will it out automatically
like if there's an app and it it will
sometimes notify me or if I check it,
it'll or I can also engage with like ask
it. Um, but what it does is essentially
it's like granola but like for your life
in in terms of capturing everything,
summarizing it and then giving you tips
and feedback and it said things like,
"Hey, there was that time you were
talking about the game and you cut your
kid off a lot and maybe next time think
about letting them speak fully and
listening better."
>> The app itself natively does that.
>> Yeah. I did not know that because I have
one. I haven't used it much recently.
That is incredible. Yeah. I wonder if it
gives you relationship advice too if
you're talking to your partner. I wonder
how he even knows.
>> Yeah. Um it's so I it was it was it was
did a pretty good job of inferring you
know that or I think it's a person too,
but it was it was like kind of eye
opening for me.
>> Incredible something. So there's a
recent episode of the our how I AI
podcast or sister podcast where somebody
uh wears that in their meetings with
CEOs with their CEO and automatically
turns what they're asking for into a
prototype from the meeting notes and
then sales teams can start showing it to
people to see if they're interested. How
about that?
>> That's awesome. That is super cool.
>> Holy moly. We don't even What is even
happening? Okay, I'll keep going. Uh do
you have a favorite life motto that you
find yourself repeating to yourself
sharing with others?
>> I like make it happen. Just a reminder
that at the end of the day we can do a
lot of we can have a lot of motion.
Maybe this is another one that I really
like. Um I think about this poster. It
used to be a poster at Facebook that
says don't mistake motion for progress.
So there's this idea of like be the
change you want to be in the world. I
guess there's all other ways of saying
the same thing which is like you know
I'm I can do things like we can all do
things. We're have better and better
tools to go out there and make things
happen. Make it happen.
>> Like the common meme on Twitter, you can
just do things.
>> Yes.
>> Final question. I like to ask this
question of folks that are really deep
in AI and been working with AI and kind
of getting a sense of where things are
going.
>> Is there something that you teach your
kids or teaching your kids think about
encouraging them to learn knowing that
AI is going to be a big part of their
life?
>> Emotional regulation is still really,
really, really important. That's
probably the thing that I think about
the most in terms of what I want my kids
to learn. I want my kids to be able to
introspect, to have a better
understanding of where their state of
mind is because we're still human. We
still have the same hardware that humans
have had for thousands of years. And
that's not changing even as the tools
and the environment around us change.
And so I feel that you have to really
understand yourself and you have to
understand what's going on for you and
where you are biased and where you are
not because AI can make it and this is
my great fear is that it makes things so
much more comfortable and I have this
great fear that this has been the
trajectory that we've been on with
technology right this is again going
back to like every strength is a
weakness technology makes things a lot
easier that's why we invent
like we're always human race has always
been about trying to better our
circumstances and in some ways control
our destiny like control our future. But
at the same time, all of that control
gets to a point where we have so many
shortcuts in our lives and you can
shortcut a lot of things. I can shortcut
relationships. You can shortcut like
hard feelings because now you can just
watch TikTok instead of actually dealing
with the very difficult emotion or
tension that you had with a colleague or
with your partner or with your children.
And AI makes it even I think more
attractive because now there's a person
who can or there's a thing that can be
very very personalized and if you're
like h I want a distraction I want to do
something you got that but how do we
actually still learn to sit with what is
our true biology that's not changing and
how do we continue to be the kind of
people that want to take on the freedom
of doing challenging things because I
find that if we don't do challenging
things we just we suffer we suffer in a
different Right. And so to me, true
freedom is you can pick the things that
are hard and you can feel pride in
becoming the the thing that you want to
be. It's not forced upon you. Like it's
not for survival sake anymore, but you
still have to pick. And I want to figure
out for my children the fact that like
it is really important to still find the
challenge. Yes, you can use AI to do
that, but really don't think about it as
a shortcut tool. Um because if that's
the case, I don't actually think that
they're going to be able to become the
kind of people they want to be in the
world.
>> What a beautiful way to end this
conversation, Julia. It feels like this
is just like some kind of huge milestone
of this podcast, just like having you
back three years later. It's like a I
don't know, a chapter in the in the
journey. Uh I appreciate you coming
back. I appreciate you sharing all this
wisdom with us.
>> Two final questions. Where can folks
find you online if they want to reach
out and maybe chat about maybe Sundial,
maybe whatever else you're up to and
then how can listeners be useful to you?
>> Well, I would love to work with people
who are at companies building really
cool things and want better answers to
um how we build better. And so if you
think your company would be interested
in working with us at Sundial um and
figuring out how do we make every single
decision maker into their own expert
analyst, please reach out. So that's one
area. So, um, sundial at sundial.so. Uh,
I am on X, so I've been tweeting a lot
more, sharing, uh, uh, thoughts, you
know, going back to that that skill of
practicing just share what's on your
mind. But for the long form stuff, I
have my blog, The Looking Glass. It's on
Substack. Uh, I share articles and
thoughts about AI, product building,
leadership periodically. And then, of
course, I have my book, the a revised
edition with two additional chapters.
One is around managing remotely and the
other one is around uh managing in a
downturn or managing in change difficult
change scenarios. Um that will be coming
out in two weeks time.
>> It's going the new content will be in
the paperback. That's important and I
will I'll send you a version of this
when I get a copy myself, Lenny. But the
paperback has a gradient type of cover.
Um the hardback will eventually get the
new content but it just takes a while to
phase out from all of the different
retailers. So, if you buy one, I cannot
guarantee that it's going to have the
new content, but certainly the Kindle
and the paperback will have all of the
new content.
>> And then, so just for the publish date,
because this might come out later,
what's the what's the date it's coming
out? Just for folks,
>> September 9th.
>> Okay. Amazing. So, I think it'll be out
by the time this is out, so go buy it. I
imagine available Amazon, all your local
retailers.
>> Yes. Yes.
>> Amazing. Julie, thank you so much for
being here.
>> Thank you so much, Lenny. This was so
fun. I hope to be back in another three
years or whatever the next chapter is.
>> Hopefully sooner.
>> Bye everyone.
>> Bye.
>> Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.